How about a Summer of Good for your organization?Facing communication challenges?Uncertain how your non-profit is perceived by the community – or if that perception is accurate?Preparing to launch a new initiative?Need help getting the word out?If the answer to these is yes, AIGA Nashville’s Summer of Good is here to help!This summer AIGA Nashville will pair design students with mentors (professional designers and agencies)to use design thinking, problem solving and design skills to solve challenges faced by non-profit organizations.This program is about more than just creating design or advertising work to solve immediate needs. While those short-term needs will be addressed, the broader goal of the program is for the AIGA design team to work in collaboration with non-profits to think beyond immediate needs and focus on the bigger picture and how to implement design solutions in order to reach long term goals. Therefore, the final results will include both short- term deliverables and long-term strategies.What’s in it for you, the non-profit organization?• Short term deliverables (for example: brochures, ads, logos, business cards, email templates, campaigns)• Ideas and strategies for long-term solutions (infrastructural changes, concepts, strategic plans formore robust campaigns, story boards, wire frames for web site development)• Local and regional exposure through AIGA events• Possible national exposure through the Design for Good initiative(See Summer of Good and Design for Good sections below)• Connections to leaders in the design fieldAIGA Nashville • Summer of Good • 2012p > 1
The Summer of Good & Design for GoodThe Summer of Good program is AIGA Nashville’s take on the national AIGA initiative called Design for Good.Design for Good is a platform to build and sustain the implementation of design thinking for social change. The methodology commonly referred to as “design thinking” is a proven and repeatable problem-solving protocol that any business or profession can employ to achieve extraordinary results. The Design for Good platform creates opportunities for the organizations the designers work with to advance the organization’s mission, build their network and increase visibility. It allows the designers to build their practice, their network, and increase their visibility while creating a positive impact on the community. Design for Good aims to channel designers and their creative talent toward addressing community needs.The Summer of Good will forge relationships between the designers and non-profits that will enrich the future for the organization. AIGA will leverage the project to increase awareness in Nashville of the important and critical role design thinking can play in helping clients meet their larger objectives.Summer of Good DetailsOne design team consisting of:• One AIGA facilitator (professional designer)• One design mentor (a design professional from a local agency, firm or company)• Two design students(an incoming senior enrolled in a local design school and selectively chosen by an AIGA committee)The Summer of Good program schedule: The program will run from June 18 through August 10.Rough outline of non-profit organization’s involvement:1. Initial meeting with AIGA members2. Orientation & Education Meeting (Student-Mentor-Non-profit-AIGA Facilitator)3. Research and Development Meetings (on-going, one per week throughout the program)Can Include:• Defining the scope of the project(s)• Presentation of Creative Brief and Q&A• Creative updates• Contact for approvals (can be remote update)4. Final Presentation (Student-Mentor-Non-profit-AIGA Facilitator)AIGA Nashville • Summer of Good • 2012p > 2
What is expected from selected non-profit organizations ?• Willingness and openness to investigate, explore and accept: new ideas, change, new ways of thinking, new ways of organization, new points of view and the design direction of design professionals• One point of contact• Frequent face-to-face meetings• Ability to promptly respond to necessary phone calls and emails• Agree to meet deadlines for approvals and content submission• Provide quick approval when necessary• Have realistic expectations and goals• Provide approved final content for design pieces (copy, photos, etc) if applicable• Coordinate the use of internal resources (photography, etc) for the project if applicableInterested in Applying?We are excited to get started and would love to hear from you!Please fill out the questionnaire starting on page 5 of this document. The AIGA Board will review the applications and contact organizations with needs that are a good fit for the Summer of Good program.Send the completed questionnaire (Word doc, PDF or email content) toMatt Allison: vp@nashville.aiga.org. Thank you!AIGA Nashville • Summer of Good • 2012p > 3
Who is AIGA?Founded in 1914 as the American Institute of Graphic Arts, AIGA remains the oldest and largest professionalmembership organization for design and is now known simply as ”AIGA, the professional association for design.“ AIGA’s mission is to advance designing as a professional craft, strategic tool and vital cultural force.AIGA believes designers serve a critical role as communicators, educators and innovators.There are 66 Chapters and more than 22,000 Members.AIGA works to:• Inform about best practices, standards for ethical conduct and professional expertise• Communicate design’s importance to the public and business leaders about the power of design• Inspire through articles, online galleries, profiles, videos and exhibitions• Represent the profession through a network of chapters and student groups• Stimulate discussion of the industry through events, social media and websitesFor more information, visit www.aiga.org.AIGA NashvilleThe Nashville chapter of AIGA, the professional association for design, was formed in 2002 so that all local creativeprofessionals will have the support and resources of local ties, with affiliation to a national organization.AIGA Nashville is a state-recognized, not-for-profit organization of designers, design educators, creative directors, photographers, illustrators, copywriters, production managers, web designers, web programmers, animators, production artists and many other types of creative professionals.Our current goal is to create a community within the local environment of creatives through our monthly programming and developing relationships with other creative organizations.For more information on AIGA Nashville, visit www.nashville.aiga.org.Additional Information:For more information on AIGA’s Design for Good movement, visit designforgood.aiga.org.For more information on the Summer of Good, visit: nashville.aiga.org/events/summer-of-good.For more information on the Design Thinking process, visitwww.fastcompany.com/resources/design/dziersk/design-thinking-083107.html.For questions about the Summer of Good program, email Matt Allison:vp@nashville.aiga.org.AIGA Nashville • Summer of Good • 2012p > 4
Summer of Good Non-Profit QuestionnairePlease answer the following questions and submit your responses to vp@nashville.aiga.org.1) Tell us about your organization. Are you part of a larger, national organization? How many employees work in Nashville? Do you have a board? What its purpose or mission of the organization?2) How are you funded? What is your tax status? Please note: Your organization must be exempt from Fed. Income Tax under Sec. 501 (c)(3) or similar sect of USIR code.3) Where do you see yourself as an organization in 6 months? 1 year? 3 years? What are your goals?4) What are the potential hurtles that would prevent your organization from reaching those goals? (operational or communication based)5) What is your opinion of your organization’s current public perception? Is it accurate?6) What do you wish to convey to the public? Is there one main message or identity element that you would like to increase the general public’s awareness of?7) Is there confusion in the marketplace about what your organization does, who it helps, and who can become involved?AIGA Nashville • Summer of Good • 2012p > 5
8) Is there an internal communication or operational challenge that needs attention? Is there a problem to be solved that would result in increased efficiency for the organization and its employees?9) Do you have any current marketing efforts (including social media)? Who are you trying to reach? What action(s) are you hoping to elicit?10) Is there a specific project, goal or problem to be solved that AIGA can help your organization with? Are you launching a new campaign? A new offering? Do you need to recruit more employees or volunteers? Awareness about a specific service?11) Are there any tangible or measurable goals you wish to accomplish from this project?12) Does your organization have a current Advertising/Marketing/Print Budget? If so, how is it funded?13) Do you have any contacts with editors/photographers/typesetters/printers who would be willing to donate their service?14) Please provide any additional information you think is relevant to this effort.AIGA Nashville • Summer of Good • 2012p > 6