Attention junior-level students!Do you think you have what it takes to be a part of AIGA Nashville’s Summer of Good internship program?Why not spend the summer building your portfolio and giving a local non-profit the boost they need. Read the information below and apply!What is the Summer of Good?This summer AIGA Nashville will pair design students with mentors (professional designers and agencies) to use design thinking, problem solving and design skills to solve challenges faced by select non-profit organizations.While participants will create design pieces during this process, the Summer of Good program is about more than just creating a piece of work for a non-profit. Participants will use all of their design thinking skills to work with the non-profit to move beyond what their immediate need is to focus on the bigger picture, achieving both short and long term goals, and proving the value of solid design thinking.Still Interested???Here’s the Skinny:We are looking for eight students from the region to participate in the program. The program will run for eight weeks beginning June 18 and lasting through August 10, with final presentations during the week of August 18.The program will consist of roughly 150 working hours*, weekly meetings with a mentor and occasional meetings with the non-profit and AIGA facilitator. You will work to create design pieces, creative briefs and plans while documenting your progress.Work will be showcased at a final presentation celebration and displayed at this year’s Think Tank Conference.* Select schools will be able to offer internship credits for this program. Contact your internship coordinator or advisor and let them know you are applying.Think you have what it takes to take part in this program?Follow the steps on the next page to apply!Applications are due by March 30, 2012.AIGA Nashville • Summer of Good • 2012p > 1
Steps to Apply:Step 1: Get your resume together.Step 2: Select three of your best pieces of work. These pieces should showexcellent problem solving in addition to great design. Step 3: Answer the questions below.Step 4: Create PDFs of all the information above.Step 5: Email the PDFs to: vp@nashville.aiga.org.Application Questions:1. Describe yourself in one paragraph.2. Why should you be chosen to participate in a Summer of Good internship?3. What qualifications and skills will you bring to your group?4. If you could work with one non-profit, who would that be?5. What are your goals as a designer?6. What is your strength as a designer?7. What is your weakness as a designer?8. Do you have a design field you would like to work in? For example: logo design, advertising, web design, web programming, package design, etc.9. What interests you?10. Is there anything else you would like to tell us?Have any questions?Let Matt know at vp@nashville.aiga.org. Check nashville.aiga.org for updates.Good Luck!AIGA Nashville • Summer of Good • 2012p > 2